--- 
title: "Many Happy Returns: AlPoo's Blog, Cycle 2"
date: 2007/11/30 21:39:31
tags: 
- Many Happy Returns
- manuscript

---

<em><u>Stay tuned for my serial novel.</u></em>
Posted August 9, 2008, 11:00 am by <u>AlPoo</u>.

Hey, kiddies, guess what?  I'm going to write my novel after all.

For those of you who missed my rant yesterday, let me summarize.  Waaahhhh!  I can't write my novel because the time loop erases everything I write.   Waaahhhh!

I think that gives the gist of it.  As for the details, well, those are gone like the pages of my novel.  C'est la guerre, or however you spell that.  Them's the breaks.

But I figured it out:  I can still write my novel.  But I'll publish it a scene at a time, right here on AlPoo Saves the Day.  Every day I'll write another scene and publish it here.  If you want to read it, you'll just have to keep up.

Dostoevsky wrote serials, and he did okay.  Dickens did okay, too, with serials, at least if Miss Breckenhall, my ninth grade English teacher, told me the truth.  And even Stephen King wrote a serial once.

So I'm in good company.  And anyway with the time loop there's no other way to do it.

Once again blogs are the future of publishing.  Once again the brilliant and handsome AlPoo saves the day.

Oh, and Miss Breckenhall...  If you're out there somewhere reading this, you should know that I still pine for you just like -- excuse me -- just <em>as</em> ten years ago.  But now I'm all grown up, if you know what I mean.  So IM me, any time, night or day.  M'kay?
