--- 
categories: 
- Many Happy Returns
date: 2007/11/14 19:02:59
tags: 
- manuscript
title: Many Happy Returns Chapter 6 Scene 3
comments: true
published: true
layout: post
---

Anderson Cooper:  We have the Reverend Jerry Falwell on the phone from Liberty Baptist University in Luxembourg, Antigua.  Good evening Reverend Falwell.

The Reverend Jerry Falwell:  Good evening Anderson.

Cooper:  Reverend Falwell, what is your assessment of what happened four hours ago?

Falwell:  Well, I think that's absolutely clear, Anderson.  We're entering the end times that were promised in the Bible.  Jesus is prepared over the next few days to take up the faithful to heaven, and to assign the sinners their cubicles in hell.

Cooper:  Where in the bible speaks to this kind of event?  I mean specifically.

Falwell:  I think the time for that question has passed.  The thing we should be focused on now is preparing ourselves to meet the Lord, preparing ourselves to be judged by God.  The fact that we are all still here says that we haven't yet been judged.  There is still time to line up behind the Lord in faith.  But this would not be a good time to dally.  If you haven't made peace with the Lord, that's what I recommend that you be doing right now.  And those of you who *are* faithful in Christ, now is a time to explore your own heart to find whether there is something in your life that you want to change.  Anything that isn't completely in line with the teachings of Jesus as spelled out over and over in the New Testament.

Cooper:  What, specifically, do advise people to do?

Falwell:  First, notice that God has given you a great gift here.  You have a chance not just to repent your sins, but actually to change your actions.  If there's anything you did in the last day or so before this joyous event that you regret, anything that might separate you from the grace of God, you have this one last opportunity to make a different choice in your life.

Falwell:  First, notice that God has given you a great gift here.  You have a chance not just to repent your sins, but actually to change your actions.  If there's anything you did in the last day or so before this joyous event that you regret, anything that might separate you from the grace of God, you have this one last opportunity to make a different choice in your life.

Cooper:  When you say one last time, what do you mean?

Falwell:  This is a test from God.  He has offered each of us a chance to undo our actions, to undo our sins, to wipe out a day of our actions so that we may choose again, so that we may choose to live in accordance with the morality of Jesus Christ.  If there's anything you've done in ignorance of the imminence of God's holy judgment, you now have a chance to choose again, knowing that God is watching, that God is judging you, and that the Judgment Day is imminent.

Cooper:  For those of you watching, we have the Reverend Jerry Falwell by satellite from his studios in Liberty Baptist University in Someplace, Louisiana.

Reverend Falwell, you say that the Judgment Day is imminent.  Just how imminent is it?  Do you believe that we fleshly mortals have another day?  A year?  Just how much time do we have.

Falwell:  Well that's not something we can know precisely, Anderson.  But we do know that the Judgment Day is upon us.  Why else would God give us this gift of another chance, a chance to change our actions?

Cooper:  Reverend Falwell, what were you doing just before the event?

Falwell:  I was praying.

Cooper:  And just after?  Where did you end up?

Falwell:  I went from praying to a staff meeting.  We at Liberty Baptist University have been reviewing proposals for our youth outreach program.  Six uf us suddenly appeared in our main conference room surrounded by hundreds of presentations and proposals.

Cooper:  What did you think was happening?

Falwell:  To be honest, Anderson, I immediately realized what had happened, that we had been given a second chance.  Clearly there was some proposal that we had overlooked, or that we had dismissed without sufficient consideration.  So we spent the next hour reviewing again the proposals that we had scrutinized the day before--that is, the first time we held the meeting.  This time, we selected the programs that we can get up and running immediately, with low cost and with very little setup and preparation.  And while we're focusing on youth outreach, we also included a few proposals for the general population.  And of course we called you.

Cooper:  And what's next for you, Reverend Falwell?  What are you personally doing to prepare in case this is Judgment Day.

Falwell:  I'm confident, Anderson, that I'm in the Lord's good graces.  I'll be spending the next few days reaching as many people as I can and inviting them to Faith in Christ.

Cooper:  Thank you, Reverend Falwell.

Falwell:  Thank you, Anderson.  I advise you and your viewers to pray, Anderson.  Nothing is more important at this critical moment.  Pray.  Pray for your immortal souls.
