--- 
categories: 
- Many Happy Returns
date: 2007/11/30 21:00:59
tags: 
- manuscript
title: Many Happy Returns &#8212; Zorem, Cycle 2, Friday Afternoon
comments: true
published: true
layout: post
---

<em>He killed me twice</em>, Zorem Bigote thought.  He thought.  He <em>thought</em>.  Which meant that he was thinking.  Which meant that he was alive.  Again.

"Get the fuck off me!" Faith shouted.

Zorem realized that he was on top of Faith.  <em>Inside</em> Faith.  Faith who was married to Dan.  Dan who had killed him twice.  Twice so far.

"I said get <em>off</em> me!"  Faith shoved upward with both hands, and Zorem fell sideways off the bed.

"What the hell," Zorem said.  "What's happening?"

"You're a fucking coward, that's what's happening," Faith said.  "Are you going to let him kill us again?"

"<em>Heeeeere's Johnny!</em>" Dan said from the doorway.  He was, of course, holding the gun.

Zorem dropped onto his belly and scrambled under the bed.

"You <em>fucking</em> coward!" Faith yelled.  "You <em>fucking</em> coward!"

"Yes, a fucking coward," Dan said.  "And a cowardly fucker, too."

The bed started to move.  Dan was pulling the bed away.

Dan's hands appeared beneath the bed.  Then his face.  He was kneeling beside the bed, holding the gun in one hand.

The bed jerked.  How could that be possible?

"You <em>fucking</em> coward," Faith said, and the bed jerked again.

Dear God, she was helping him.  Faith was <em>helping</em> this madman.

Zorem screamed, "Faith, help me.  Help <em>me</em>!"

Dan smiled.  "I don't think she likes you any more, goat boy."

Zorem heard footsteps in the doorway.  She was running away.  Faith was running away!  "<em>Now</em> who's the coward!"

A gunshot blast filled the air.

Faith yelped, and Zorem heard her tumble down the stairs with a scream.

"Hey goat boy," Dan said.

Zorem turned toward Dan.  Toward Dan's gun, which Dan was pointing straight at Zorem's crotch.

"No, not the crotch!" Zorem said.  He was surprised to hear his voice crack.  Instinctively, though he knew it was foolish, Zorem covered his privates with his hands.

"You may be a coward, goat boy, but chivalry isn't dead yet," Dan said, and fired.

The pain was immediate and intense and all-encompassing.  Zorem screamed, and the pain grew louder.  <em>It's too much</em>, Zorem thought.

"Kill me," he said.  "Kill me quickly."

Dan stood up.

"Please!" Zorem said.

"Oh, I don't think so," Dan said.

The bed moved, and Zorem was totally exposed.  Naked and exposed.

"Kill me now," he said.  "Please!"

Dan leaned against the bureau and folded his arms.

The pain grew louder.
