--- 
title: The train, she is derailed
date: 2007/11/14 18:39:21
tags: 
- Many Happy Returns
- commentary

---

Chapter 5 was (except for scene 5 with Mindy and Noopie) a slog to write.  I averaged about 350 words per hour.  It came out mostly okay, I think, but it was no fun to write.  Bleah!

Chapter 6 (coming soon) was a different story altogether.  True, it was a slog like Chapter 5.  And like Chapter 5 it was no fun to write.  But unlike Chapter 5 it <em>didn't</em> come out mostly okay.  It came out poopie. True NaNo-quality poop.  I'm struggling to adopt Katster's cheerful admonition to "embrace the suck!"

But given that it sucks, I may as well embrace it, eh?

Scene 2 in particular went awry.  I started writing it, hated it, set it aside, and wrote scenes 3 and 4 instead.  When I came back to scene 2 I realized that it the logic of the timing was just plain wrong.  So my characters lamented that I had made them so stupid—and I included their laments in the scene and abandoned it.

And then a murkle happened.  I decided to interview some of my characters.  That turned out to be really fun, really fast, and really interesting.  I got 4000+ words of juicy stuff in under four hours.  I didn't know I could write that fast.  And Dan in particular has some real attitude that I didn't know about.  I think (I hope, at least) it's going to make writing him more fun in the near future.

So that's that.  Chapter Six: no fun.  Interviews: wicked good fun.

Now: on with the show.
