--- 
title: "Many Happy Returns: Jacob, Cycle 2, Friday Evening"
date: 2007/11/30 21:03:09
tags: 
- Many Happy Returns
- manuscript

---

Jacob Anderson was crying still.  Not again, but still.  He had cried for what seemed like a year.  He had watched his brother die, and he had stood by paralized, unable to bring himself to help.  And what could he do?  He didn't know how to swim any more than Zack did.

So Jacob crying, and in such despair over the loss of his brother that it took him a moment to realize that he was standing in the cold water of the pond.

"Double," Zack said.

Jacob screamed.

On the beach, his mother screamed.

<em>Double</em>.  The boat!

Jacob tried to run, but the water pushed back against him.

He heard his brother gasping and splashing.

"Zack, hold on!  I'm getting the boat," he said.  "Just like you said, I'm getting the boat!"

He pushed slowly through the water toward the reeds where the boat lolled.

Come <em>on!</em> Jacob commanded himself.  On the double.

Jacob saw movement on the beach.  He turned to see his mother, her face ashen, racing into the water toward Zack.

"Yes, Jacob!" she shouted.  "The boat.  That's a brave boy!"

Jacob began to cry, to panic.  "I'm going for it, Mom.  I'm going to try."  And he turned and slogged through the water into the weeds.

He reached the rickety, rotting boat and pulled.  It didn't move.  He tugged again, harder, and the boat broke free from the reeds.  Jacob lost his balance and fell backward into the water.  He tried to stand, and bumped his head on the boat, which had drifted over him.  He yelped, and it came out as a blubbing bubble of air.  He felt a rush of water into his lungs and stomach.  The water was cold in his stomach, chilling him.  But the water in his lungs burned.

Jacob reached up to feel where the boat was.  The bottom was slimy, but he held onto it while he moved out from underneath.  He stood up and coughed, shooting out a gout of water.  He coughed again and again, doubling over in pain.

"No!" he shouted, and vomited water and hot dog chunks.  <em>I'm not going to want mac and cheese after this.</em>

He turned around.  He couldn't see Zack or his mother.  He couldn't see splashes that might tell him where they were.  He hoped he could remember where they went down before.

He grabbed the rim of the boat and jumped, trying to pull himself up onto the edge.  The boat tipped.  Jacob lost his grip and fell backward into the water again.  He reached up to feel the boat, not wanting to bump his head again.

Damn, he wouldn't have time to get in the boat.  He would have to tug it along behind him as he slogged through the water.

He began to run, or to try to run.  He lost his footing, but held onto the edge of the boat.  And it started to move.

<em>Yes,</em> he thought.  <em>I can swim.  With the boat, I can swim.</em>

He kicked his legs and waved his free arm in the water.  He and the boat started slowly to move toward the deadly dropoff.

Ahead of him, maybe forty feet ahead, his mother's head popped out of the water, facing away from Jacob.  She spun and looked toward Jacob.

"Hurry, honey!" she said.  "I can't find him."

She dived, and Jacob swam.

As he reached the spot where he thought she had been, he stopped kicking, but the boat kept moving.  He swiveled his legs in the water and kicked.  The boat slowed to a stop.

Jacob held the side of the boat with both hands and lowered himself slowly, trying to reach the bottom with his feet.  But the water reached his chin and he still hadn't touched bottom.  He must have been out past the dropoff.

<em>What if they come up,</em> he thought.  <em>I can't help like this.</em>

He spun so that his legs pointed under the boat, away from the shore, and kicked.  The boat slowly moved with him toward the shore.

He lowered his feet again and touched the sandy bottom, just as the water came up past his chin.

He had to get into the boat.  Then he could reach down and help them when they came to the surface.  <em>If</em> they came to the surface.

"No," he said out loud.  "They <em>will</em> come."

He crouched in the water and gripped the side of the boat with both hands.  He knew that when he pulled, the boat would tip, but this time he was ready for that.  He jumped and pulled with everything he had. The edge of the boat tipped down toward him as he rose toward it.  He flopped forward on his belly onto the edge of the boat.  The boat listed wildly toward him, then rocked back.  The edge was nearly under the water.

Jacob wriggled toward the center of the boat.  The boat wobbled precariously, but the edge remained above the water.

Jacob stretched his arm forward, grabbed the edge of the seat as far away as he could reach, and pulled.  The boat rocked one way, then the other.  Jacob flopped, heavy and wet, into the boat.  His face scraped along the dry, splintery edge of the seat, and he could feel his skin rip.

He heard splashes beyond the boat.

"Jacob, help!" his mother said.

He jerked up onto his knees in time to see his mother drop below the surface again, just beyond the edge of the boat.  Too far to reach with his hands.  He was too far away to help!

He grabbed the oar, leaned out, and paddled the boat further out from the shore.  After a few strokes, he thought -- he hoped -- he was out far enough.  He dropped the paddle into the boat and leaned over the edge.

He felt a bump through the bottom of the boat.

Oh, God, he had gone too far!  They were trapped under the boat.  He was making things <em>worse</em>.  He was going to kill them both!

He heard a splash from the shoreward edge of the boat.  He turned to see a hand -- his mother's hand -- grip the edge of the boat.

Jacob yelled, "Did you get him?  Is he okay?"

His mother coughed, and he felt the boat tilt toward her.  He leaned toward her to help.

"No, Jakob, lean the other way," his mother said.

Jacob leaned away from her and the boat leveled.

His mother coughed again.

"<em>Did you get Zack!"</em> Jacob screamed.

His mother reached up and lay her forearm along the edge of the boat.  Jacob could see her now, her head out of the water.  And Zack's head half in and half out of the water.

"Jacob, lean away from me again."

Jacob leaned toward the other side of the boat.

He heard Zack cough.  Thank God!

"Just keep leaning, honey.  I'll kick us toward the shore."

The boat started moving.

Jacob looked into the water.  The deep black of the deep water gave way to a pale, sickly green.

"Mom, I think we're over the sand!"

The boat rocked as his mother released the edge.  Jacob saw her moving away toward the shore with Zack in her arms.

"Wait," Jacob cried.  "How do I get in?!"

"You're in a boat!"

Jacob looked down at the boat.  Oh crap, how stupid could he be?  He lost his balance and fell into the bowl of the boat.  He started laughing.  He couldn't help himself.

His mother reached the shore with Zack.  She lay Zack onto the sand and looked back toward Jacob.

"I'm okay," Jacob said, and shifted himself onto the seat.

His mother turned toward Zack and tilted his head to the side.  Zack cough up water.

Jacob picked up the paddle, but he couldn't reach over the edge from his position in the middle of the seat.  He shifted to the side and the boat tilted.  He slid back to the middle, unsure what to do.

On the beach, Zack said, "What's Jacob doing out there?"

Jacob started laughing again.  Laughing and crying at the same time.

Zack said, "What's so fucking funny?"

Their mother started to laugh, and it sounded weird, like maybe she was crying, too.

Jacob slide gently to the side of the boat.  He waited for it to stop rocking, then reached the oar over the side and paddled.

A moment later the boat scraped to a stop in the sand.  Jacob stepped gingerly over the side and felt for the sand with his foot.  When his foot touched solid ground he ran to where his mother and Zack sat by the edge of the water.

Jacob thought about the bump he had felt through the bottom of the boat.  "I'm sorry," Jacob said.  "I thought I had trapped you with the boat."

His mother squeezed his arm.  "It's okay, sweetie.  You were wonderful.  You're a hero."

"I almost drownded you," he said.

"We're okay," she said.  "We're all okay.  All of us."

"Hey, you got the boat," Zack said, as if he had just realized this.  "That's pretty smucking fart."

"Zack," their mother said, "in about two minutes I'm going to stop cutting you slack about your language."  But she was smiling.

Suddenly she frowned.  "Zack, what were you doing down there.  It looked as if you were waving me away."

"I was trying to breathe the water."

"My God, Zack, <em>why</em>?"

"That's what I did last time.  It was peaceful."

Suddenly their mother burst into tears.  "Zack, you <em>died</em> last time.  You <em>died,</em> Zack!"

"It hurt at first, but then it was really calm."

Their mother began sobbing.

"Zack!" Jacob said, "Shut up!"

Zack turned to Jacob, a look of horrible, puzzled pain on his face.  "What?"

Their mother took Zack's face gently in her hands.  "Sweetie, we lost you."

"I died?"

She pulled Zack's head to her chest and kissed the top of his head.

He pulled back and looked her seriously in the eye.  "I <em>died</em>?"

"If this happens again," she said, "you do everything you can to stay with us, okay?  I don't know why this keeps happening, but if it happens again, do everything you can, okay?"

"Okay," Zack said.  "But it wasn't so bad..."

"Well, it was for us," she said.  "It was <em>awful</em> for us.  Your brother and your dad and me.  We're not ready to lose you yet.  Right Jacob?"

"Yeah," Jacob said.  "It sucked."

"So you do everything you can, okay?"

"Okay."

"And we will always come for you.  No matter how many times this happens, we will always come for you."

Jacob looked away toward the boat.  He began to cry, and then he began to sob.
